[okta-459281] Okta Email (OTP/EML) integration guide (.NET SDK) (#3186)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/authenticators-okta-email/main/aspnet/designconsiderationscustompasswordrecovery.md

## Design considerations when customizing magic link for password recovery

### Design Overview

> If you've customized your self-service password recovery solution as described in the <StackSnippet snippet="custompwdguide" inline /> and also initiate password recoveries using the [/forgot_password API](/docs/reference/api/users/#forgot-password), you need to consider how your users interact with your magic links. Specifically, your design has the following attributes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you've customized your self-service password recovery (SSPR) solution as described in the <StackSnippet snippet="custompwdguide" inline /> and also initiated password recovery using the [/forgot_password API](/docs/reference/api/users/#forgot-password), you need to consider how your users interact with your magic links. Specifically, your design has the following attributes:
```

> If you've customized your self-service password recovery (SSPR) solution as described in the <StackSnippet snippet="custompwdguide" inline /> and also initiated password recovery using the [/forgot_password API](/docs/reference/api/users/#forgot-password), you need to consider how your users interact with your magic links. Specifically, your design has the following attributes:

Author: fixed

> * The magic link `href` attribute in the **Forgot Password** template has been updated to replace the `${resetPasswordLink}` variable with a URL string containing the `otp` and `state` parameters using the `${oneTimePassword}` and `${request.relayState}` variables. For example, `https://localhost:44314/magiclink/callback?otp=${oneTimePassword}&state=${request.relayState}`.

Author: @IanHakes-okta localhost:44314/magiclink isn't random. It's the specific port and controller that the dotnet sample app uses and that is referenced throughout the guide.  If you still want me to change it to example.cm/signin, then that is fine, but jsut wanted to point that out.

> * The magic link `href` attribute in the **Forgot Password** template has been updated to replace the `${resetPasswordLink}` variable with a URL string containing the `otp` and `state` parameters using the `${oneTimePassword}` and `${request.relayState}` variables. For example, `https://localhost:44314/magiclink/callback?otp=${oneTimePassword}&state=${request.relayState}`.

Reviewer: If you have defined this URL and port elsewhere in the guide for a specific sample app configuration, then that's OK, but I had not seen it. My general practice for URL examples is that when we present a URL example, it mirrors the URL configuration for a production site, which wouldn't be on a local host or port.

> * The magic link `href` attribute in the **Forgot Password** template has been updated to replace the `${resetPasswordLink}` variable with a URL string containing the `otp` and `state` parameters using the `${oneTimePassword}` and `${request.relayState}` variables. For example, `https://localhost:44314/magiclink/callback?otp=${oneTimePassword}&state=${request.relayState}`.

Reviewer: Are you going to include the link to the customize topic?

> * The magic link `href` attribute in the **Forgot Password** template has been updated to replace the `${resetPasswordLink}` variable with a URL string containing the `otp` and `state` parameters using the `${oneTimePassword}` and `${request.relayState}` variables. For example, `https://localhost:44314/magiclink/callback?otp=${oneTimePassword}&state=${request.relayState}`.

Author: OK that's fair enough. 
There is a link to customization details on line 5 but it's hidden in a snippet. The URL is developer.okta.com/docs/guides/oie-embedded-sdk-use-case-custom-pwd-recovery-mfa/nodeexpress/main/#update-the-forgot-password-email-template

> * The magic link `href` attribute in the **Forgot Password** template has been updated to replace the `${resetPasswordLink}` variable with a URL string containing the `otp` and `state` parameters using the `${oneTimePassword}` and `${request.relayState}` variables. For example, `https://localhost:44314/magiclink/callback?otp=${oneTimePassword}&state=${request.relayState}`.

Author: fixed

> * Your system supports password recoveries using methods other than self-service password recovery. These methods include calling the [/forgot_password API](/docs/reference/api/users/#forgot-password) with the `sendEmail` parameter sent to `true` or enabling password recoveries using the Embedded Sign-in Widget. These methods send an email to the user with a magic link meant to continue the password recovery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Your system supports password recovery using methods other than self-service password recovery. These methods include calling the [/forgot_password API](/docs/reference/api/users/#forgot-password) with the `sendEmail` parameter sent to `true` or enabling password recoveries using the Embedded Sign-in Widget. These methods send an email to the user with a magic link meant to continue the password recovery.
```

Author: fixed

> * Your system supports password recovery using methods other than self-service password recovery. These methods include calling the [/forgot_password API](/docs/reference/api/users/#forgot-password) with the `sendEmail` parameter sent to `true` or enabling password recoveries using the Embedded Sign-in Widget. These methods send an email to the user with a magic link meant to continue the password recovery.

Author: fixed

### Considerations

> In this design, you've customized the **Forgot Password** email template to include the `${oneTimePassword}` variable per the <StackSnippet snippet="custompwdguide" inline />.  When the [/forgot_password API](/docs/reference/api/users/#forgot-password) and Sign-in Widget are used to initiate the password recovery, an email is sent to the user. When the user clicks on the magic link and the request is redirected back to your app, the `otp` value is missing. This is because the password recovery was not initiated by the Embedded SDK and does not have context.  Since the `otp` value is missing, your app cannot complete the password reset using the Embedded SDK. Two options are available, however, to complete the password reset with this design.

Author: fixed.

> In this design, you've customized the **Forgot Password** email template to include the `${oneTimePassword}` variable per the <StackSnippet snippet="custompwdguide" inline />.  When the [/forgot_password API](/docs/reference/api/users/#forgot-password) and Sign-in Widget are used to initiate the password recovery, an email is sent to the user. When the user clicks on the magic link and the request is redirected back to your app, the `otp` value is missing. This is because the password recovery was not initiated by the Embedded SDK and does not have context.  Since the `otp` value is missing, your app cannot complete the password reset using the Embedded SDK. Two options are available, however, to complete the password reset with this design. They are:

Author: fixed

> #### Option 1: Use `resetPasswordLink` variable

Author: fixed

> In this option you set the magic link in the **Forgot Password** template to use the `${resetPasswordLink}` variable or include logic that sets it to `${resetPasswordLink}` if `${oneTimePassword}` is empty.

Author: fixed

```velocity
#if(${oneTimePassword})
    <a id="reset-password-link" href="http://localhost:44314/magiclink/callback?otp=${oneTimePassword}&state=${request.relayState}">
    ...
#else
    <a id="reset-password-link" href="${resetPasswordLink}" style="text-decoration: none;">
    ...
```

> > **Note:** Using `${resetPasswordLink}` sends the user to an Okta hosted page to complete the sign-in. If you're looking for a fully branded experience where you control the page experience, then the next option is a better alternative.

Author: Won't change. We're not talking about a particular flow here. We're just talking about signing in.

> > **Note:** Using `${resetPasswordLink}` sends the user to an Okta hosted page to complete the sign-in. If you're looking for a fully branded experience where you control the page experience, then the next option is a better alternative.

Author: ok ok :-) fixed

#### Option 2 (Recommended): Use your own infrastructure to send the password recovery email

> In this option, make a call to [/forgot_password API](/docs/reference/api/users/#forgot-password) and use your infrastructure to notify the user to reset their password. Specifically, do the following:

Author: fixed

1. Call [/forgot_password API](/docs/reference/api/users/#forgot-password) with `sendEmail=false`. Instead of sending a recovery email to the user, this returns a URL with a recovery token.

```json
{
  "resetPasswordUrl": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/signin/reset-password/XE6wE17zmphl3KqAPFxO"
}
```

In the above example, the recovery token is `XE6wE17zmphl3KqAPFxO`.

> 2. Parse the recovery token from the URL and send it using your infrastructure (through an out-of-band channel) to the end user's verified email address or SMS phone number. See [Authentication API - Recovery Token](/docs/reference/api/authn/#recovery-token) for more information on recovery tokens.

Author: @susanharper-okta Have removed the link and I agree it's not part of the actual instruction, but any objection to putting it in a note for the reader instead?

> 2. Parse the recovery token from the URL and send it using your infrastructure (via an out-of-band channel) to the end user's verified email address or SMS phone number. See [Authentication API - Recovery Token](/docs/reference/api/authn/#recovery-token) for more information on recovery tokens.

Author: fixed
